DPI 14: serious bug with complicated grammars and switching windows

    When I switch from a window with a complicated grammar (e.g.,
thousands of commands) to a different window, the next utterance is not
recognized until DPI 14 has done some kind of excessive housekeeping,
taking multiple seconds in some cases.  For example, when I switch from
Emacs to another window, the next utterance is delayed about five
seconds.  During the delay, natspeak.exe pegs one of my cores at 100% I
see this delay with both BestMatch IV and V.  I see no evidence of this
delay with DNS 12.5.  This bug is extremely annoying -- it applies, for
example, to the spelling window when trying to make corrections -- and
if not fixable or workable around, I will probably have to abandon DPI
14 and revert back to DNS 12.5.


Instructions for replicating:

    I am attaching a .XML file with 3000 simple notepad commands, each
of the form:

    command {word} {word} {word}

where each {word} is a word chosen randomly from a huge American
dictionary.  E.g., one of the commands is: "command abactors vivisects
twitchiness".

    First the control condition: open notepad and another window.
Select notepad and say something.  Switch to the other window then say
something.  Time how long it takes for that recognition to start.  I
measure from when I stop speaking to the appearance of the results box,
but I think any consistent method will work.  You can also watch the
task manager window to see the behavior of NatSpeak.exe.  At least on my
computer, for my measuring scheme, I get values of one second or so.

    Next, the test condition: import the 3000 commands to the command
browser (these are advance scripting commands) then repeat the test.  I
get two or more seconds now, with NatSpeak.exe pegging a core during
the delay.


    I chose simple commands to keep the number of variables down, but I
suspect that more complicated commands (e.g., with lists)
disproportionately add to the delay.


    Has anyone else run into this problem?  Can anyone else replicate
this?  I'm curious if it occurs in DNS 13 as well.

- Mark
